---
title: "Development of an elution device for ViroCap virus filters"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-EMA
excerpt: 'This paper is about ViroCap virus filters.'
date: 2017-10-19
venue: 'Environmental Monitoring and Assessment'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1007/s10661-017-6258-y'
citation: 'Fagnant, Christine Susan, Matthew Toles, Nicolette Angela Zhou, Jacob Powell, John Adolphsen, <strong>Yifei Guan</strong>, Byron Ockerman et al. "Development of an elution device for ViroCap virus filters." Environmental monitoring and assessment 189, no. 11 (2017): 1-10.'
---

Environmental surveillance of waterborne pathogens is vital for monitoring the spread of diseases, and electropositive filters are frequently used for sampling wastewater and wastewater-impacted surface water. Viruses adsorbed to electropositive filters require elution prior to detection or quantification. Elution is typically facilitated by a peristaltic pump, although this requires a significant startup cost and does not include biosafety or cross-contamination considerations. These factors may pose a barrier for low-resource laboratories that aim to conduct environmental surveillance of viruses. The objective of this study was to develop a biologically enclosed, manually powered, low-cost device for effectively eluting from electropositive ViroCap™ virus filters. The elution device described here utilizes a non-electric bilge pump, instead of an electric peristaltic pump or a positive pressure vessel. The elution device also fully encloses liquids and aerosols that could contain biological organisms, thereby increasing biosafety. Moreover, all elution device components that are used in the biosafety cabinet are autoclavable, reducing cross-contamination potential. This device reduces costs of materials while maintaining convenience in terms of size and weight. With this new device, there is little sample volume loss due to device inefficiency, similar virus yields were demonstrated during seeded studies with poliovirus type 1, and the time to elute filters is similar to that required with the peristaltic pump. The efforts described here resulted in a novel, low-cost, manually powered elution device that can facilitate environmental surveillance of pathogens through effective virus recovery from ViroCap filters while maintaining the potential for adaptability to other cartridge filters.

[Download paper here](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10661-017-6258-y)

Recommended citation: Fagnant, Christine Susan, Matthew Toles, Nicolette Angela Zhou, Jacob Powell, John Adolphsen, <strong>Yifei Guan</strong>, Byron Ockerman et al. "Development of an elution device for ViroCap virus filters." Environmental monitoring and assessment 189, no. 11 (2017): 1-10.
